---
title: Week of 2022-08-29
---

## This Week, In Brief

## Highlights

## Goals

- **Kubernetes Developer Platform**: It can create a management control plane and workload
  clusters through ClusterAPI and non-ClusterAPI managed providers
- **Kubernetes Developer Platform**: It can provision shared services onto management control
  planes
- **Kubernetes Developer Platform**: Packages for Prometheus and Grafana exist

## Goal Grades

### **Kubernetes Developer Platform**: It can create clusters in management control planes and workload clusters through ClusterAPI and non-ClusterAPI managed providers

- Result: Well, it can create management control planes...
- Grade: C

Most of this week was spent preparing for our first customer-facing demo. This
meant getting Kubernetes Developer Platform to a good enough point to demonstrate that it can
create _something_ through CI.

The good news is that the KDP Provisioner can provision Control Centers, and it
uses KDP Providers to do so! The unit and e2e's work beautifully.

The bad news is that the (thoroughly tested) KDP components didn't work when
the Legos were assembled. Since creating Control Centers and Platforms through
CI is, like, at least 80% of the value of using KDP, _this really had to work._

Thus, I spent most of my week getting the KDP pipeline working well enough to
provision Control Centers with the KDP manifest. Kept running into edge cases
that I didn't do a good enough job thinking through during design, like:

- The KDP Control Center State Manager operated on KDPCC names...but you
  wouldn't know their names unless you read their corresponding manifest
  first...
- Everything about storing Kubeconfigs in state
- What about KDPCCs that were already built, regardless of their state?

TL;DR: The demo went well enough, but implementing Platform provisioning did not
happen. Good enough for a C in my book!

### **Kubernetes Developer Platform**: It can provision shared services onto management control planes

- Result: `:sad_face_emoji:` see above.
- Grade: F

### **Kubernetes Developer Platform**: Packages for Prometheus and Grafana exist

- Result: `:sadblob_emoji:`; see above.
- Grade: F

## Other Thoughts

### Learning Docker...happening soon!

I'm excited to put the script together next week! Balancing this with KDP will
be a challenge, but I'm super pumped to put this course together, and it looks
like it'll be recorded live in Carp!

### Interrupts gonna interrupt

As it happens, I had a thick, but small, ganglion cyst in my wrist that needed
to get removed. Okay, it didn't _need_ to get removed, but the MRI I had done a
few weeks ago confirmed that the pressure in my wrist while typing was being
caused by this, and removing it wasn't going to be very invasive.

Unfortunately, it was invasive enough to put me out of service for a day. The
lidocaine numbed my wrist...and my middle finger, which I try to not use often,
but made typing really, really difficult.

This happening during our first demo week along with the pipeline bullshit above
was slightly demoralizing. I wished that I had someone with me that could have
helped me double-check my work during design. 

Oh well.
