---
title: Week of 2022-08-22
---

## This Week, In Brief

## Highlights

- I set up this site (retrospectives.carlosnunez.me) in 30 minutes with
  [https-hugo-bloggen](https://github.com/carlosonunez/https-hugo-bloggen)! Last
  time I tried to stand up a blog from it, it took an hour. Very happy about
  this.

## Goals

- **Orion's Belt**: Finish constellation state management component
- **Orion's Belt**: Start creating clusters through providers
- **LinkedIn Learning**: Get _Learning Docker_ and _Docker: Your First Project_
  Approved

## Goal Grades

### **Orion's Belt**: Finish constellation state management component

- Result: It got finished!
- Grade: A

Orion's Belt can now keep track of constellations in lightweight state files! I
thought this would take a while due to unknown nuances, but I was pleasantly
surprised when it didn't.

### **Orion's Belt**: Start creating clusters through providers

- Result: It's started...mostly.
- Grade: B+

I got Orion's Belt creating clusters through a simple
[Kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io) provider, but had trouble getting the cluster
names to be correct. This was slightly frustrating, especially since it takes
quite a while (1-2 minutes per cluster) to get these end-to-end tests to pass.

### **LinkedIn Learning**: Get TOC's Approved

- Result: They're approved, and I've created my script development schedule!
- Grade: A+

It took A WHILE to get the schedule done and dusted on my physical and Trello
boards, but it's done!

I'm also happy that I got this course approved. I'm really excited to begin
recording it.

## Other Thoughts

### Scaffolding actually works

Orion's Belt is a developer platform I'm writing that makes it easier to deploy
applications into Kubernetes without _needing_ to learn Kubernetes. I'm writing
it entirely in Bash to maximize the number of contributors that can help scale
and improve it.

Because Bash was the langauge of choice here, I spent the first two weeks of
this project on nothing but scaffolding. By "scaffolding", I mean:

- Creating libraries for stuff that I've needed to DRY in past projects, like
  logging, option parsing, etc.
- Figuring out how configuring Orion's Belt will work and building a library to
  manage how it is read,
- Building the test framework,
- and more.

It's been paying off IN DIVIDENDS for this project.

Generating consistent logs throughout the project couldn't have been
easier. I can throw `log_verbose` statements pretty much anywhere in the
codebase and see what's going on through each component.

However, where it's REALLY paid off is anytime I've needed to interact with
YAML anywhere.

Developers interact with Orion's Belt primarily through things called "Orion's
Belt specs." They are similar to using Docker Compose manifests, but with more
defauls and fewer options. These are written in YAML, because that's what The
Industry™ has decided upon.

Because this is the chief interface by which things are created and configured,
there's lots and lots of YAML querying going on. Writing the commands for all of
these queries would have been an ABSOLUTE PAIN without the `yaml.sh` library I
wrote during the first two weeks, and validating that everything is working
correctly would've been downright impossible without `bats` and `bats-mock`.

It was slow to start because of this, but like I predicted back then, I'm
getting a lot of speed now. It took me a month to get the schema validator
component done, but less than a week to create the cluster creator component.

### Everything takes WAY longer than you think it does

I wanted to find a Trello CLI to automate creating cards for my new _Learning
Docker_ course. Given that Trello has [a really accessible
API](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/trello/rest/), I thought there'd be
an ocean of options to choose from.

Well, [there weren't.](https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=trello%20cli)

Witness how a task I thought would take 30 minutes took **four friggin' hours**
and cause minor havoc over my schedule:

- Find a Trello CLI (because the Trello API is so well documented...it must exist!)
- Discover that the pickings are incredibly slim
- Try and find a Trello CLI that has a Homebrew recipe
- Found `wrk`
- `wrk` requires Java...great.
- Download openjdk@18.
- Try to set JAVA_HOME.
- After finally getting JAVA_HOME set, I discover that `wrk` doesn't work with Java 18
- Read the source...find nothing
- Try installing openjdk@11 intsead.
- Now I have multiple versions of Java, so I need a version manager for Java. Fucking fantastic. Should have quit here.
- Install `jenv` and modify my dotfiles to configure it.
- After getting everything up and running...discover that `jenv` doesn't take effect in your current session (which is LTIERALLY THE ENTIRE FUCKING POINT OF A VERSION MANAGER?)
- Update my alias for `wrk` to use JAVA_HOME at openjdk@11. That doesn't work either.
- Browse issues.
- Learn that the error is due to a change in how Java does modules that took effect after Java 9...great. So now this thing is ancient and I need Java8.
- Can't install Java8 on ARM. No Homebrew cask for it, and it won't build from source. REALLY SHOUDL HAVE STOPPED HERE.
- Quit trying to make `wrk` work (ironic). Try to use `trello-cli`.
- There's only one Dockerfile for this tool (HOW?), and it requires more setup than I want, so I create my own Dockerfile.
- Spent ten minutes getting `trello-cli` in Docker working nicely with my alias.
- Got the alias working, authentication working, and the CLI working!
- Try moving some stale cards in my list...`objectId not found`
- Look at source (again)
- Nothing on this issue
- Furiously give up, as I've just spent four hours trying to do what I thought would take 30 minutes and have basically nothing to show for it.

In the end, I landed up writing [my own lightweight
wrapper](https://github.com/carlosonunez/bash-dotfiles/commit/96ecb67682c78a3b4417d18b5d2b8cbc31412309)
around their API documentation because, crazily, that was faster than trying to
not reinvent the wheel.
