---
title: Week of 2022-09-06
---

## This Week, In Brief

This was written retroactively on 2022-10-11.

Well, it's been a little while since I've kept track of my weekly goals.
Development slowed to a halt after my first customer demo, which happened around
this time.

I had been writing this platform on my own up to this point, and it was decided
that pairing with other members on my team to get them up to speed would be
best.

Given the amount of stuff that's going on and the amount of foundational
knowledge needed to operate this platform, spending all of my time on enablement
and freezing feature development made the most sense.

## Highlights

## Goals

- **Kubernetes Developer Platform**: non-ClusterAPI Platform Provisioning
- **Kubernetes Developer Platform**: Shared Services on KDP Control Planes
- **Kubernetes Developer Platform**: Packages for Prometheus and Grafana exist

## Goal Grades

### **Kubernetes Developer Platform**: non-ClusterAPI Platform Provisioning

Result: This is actually working!
Grade: A

Really happy about this. We are finally able to provision non-ClusterAPI
Platforms and clusters within them.


### **Kubernetes Developer Platform**: Shared Services on KDP Control Planes

Result: Frozen.
Grade: F

Unfortunately had to freeze this feature due to pivoting towards enablement.

### **Kubernetes Developer Platform**: Packages for Prometheus and Grafana exist

Result: Frozen.
Grade: F

Unfortunately had to freeze this feature due to pivoting towards enablement.

## Other Thoughts

### Writing software solo, for others, is difficult.

You can spend all of your time making sure that functions are named
appropriately, test coverage is reasonable and sufficient, contribution and code
documentation is tight, and CI is present and working, and developer onboarding
will still be hard. Can't cover everything.
